README.md, before:


# PHP Debug container
## Running the Debug container

The Debug container is configured to run the file that bootstrap applications in folder `/var/www/html/public`, because I use Laravel by default, so, if you don't use a framework that bootstrap the application in this folder, you must put your source files there.
To the debug works, you must:

1) Set your local IP address in `XDEBUG_HOST` environment variable in`docker-compose.yml`.

2) Configure your editor/IDE to map the local source and the remote source.

Run:
```bash
docker-compose up -d
```

Optionaly you can build the container instead use my image, simply uncomment the `build` line in `docker-compose.yml` and run `docker-compose build`.

## IDE/Editor configuration

You need configure your editor/IDE to map the local source and where is the remote source.

### VS Code
Install [PHP Debug Extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=felixfbecker.php-debug).

Put this config in your lauch.json:

>**NOTE** this example will map the folder `src` in your local machine to `/var/www/html` onde debug container. Remeber that container is configured to boostrap in `/var/www/html/public`, as the example provided in this repo.

```json
{
    "version": "0.2.0",
    "configurations": [
        {
            "name": "XDebug",
            "type": "php",
            "request": "launch",
            "port": 9000,
            // Path to your source in container
            "serverSourceRoot": "/var/www/html",
            // Path to your local source
            "localSourceRoot": "${workspaceRoot}/src"
        }
    ]
}
```

### PHPStorn
Configuration is in two parts:

Configuring a Server: `Preferences > Languages & Frameworks > PHP > Servers`

![](http://imagizer.imageshack.us/v2/1024x768q90/924/1ftWIS.png)



Configuring a new PHP Remote Debugger: `Run > Edit Configurations` click in `+` and `PHP Remote Debugger`
![](http://imagizer.imageshack.us/v2/1024x768q90/922/bnd7fq.png)


## Sublime Text

Install [XDebug Client](https://github.com/martomo/SublimeTextXdebug)

Create a sublime-project in `Project > Save Project As...`

Paste the config as bellow in created file, and ensure that `path_mapping` is mapping the **full** path to your source, eg: `C:\my\source`, `/Users/user/my/source`, `/home/user/source`, etc...:

```json
{
  "folders": [
    {
      "follow_symlinks": true,
      "path": "."
    }
  ],
  "settings": {
    "xdebug": {
      "url": "http://localhost:8888",
      "path_mapping": {
        "/var/www/html" : "/full/path/to/your/source"
      }
    }
  }
}
```




Enjoy!

Commit message:

Update readme.md to incluse Atom instructions.

README.md, after:


# PHP Debug container
## Running the Debug container

The Debug container is configured to run the file that bootstrap applications in folder `/var/www/html/public`, because I use Laravel by default, so, if you don't use a framework that bootstrap the application in this folder, you must put your source files there.
To the debug works, you must:

1) Set your local IP address in `XDEBUG_HOST` environment variable in`docker-compose.yml`.

2) Configure your editor/IDE to map the local source and the remote source.

Run:
```bash
docker-compose up -d
```

Optionaly you can build the container instead use my image, simply uncomment the `build` line in `docker-compose.yml` and run `docker-compose build`.

## IDE/Editor configuration

You need configure your editor/IDE to map the local source and where is the remote source.

### VS Code
Install [PHP Debug Extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=felixfbecker.php-debug).

Put this config in your lauch.json:

>**NOTE** this example will map the folder `src` in your local machine to `/var/www/html` onde debug container. Remeber that container is configured to boostrap in `/var/www/html/public`, as the example provided in this repo.

```json
{
    "version": "0.2.0",
    "configurations": [
        {
            "name": "XDebug",
            "type": "php",
            "request": "launch",
            "port": 9000,
            // Path to your source in container
            "serverSourceRoot": "/var/www/html",
            // Path to your local source
            "localSourceRoot": "${workspaceRoot}/src"
        }
    ]
}
```


## Sublime Text

Install [XDebug Client](https://github.com/martomo/SublimeTextXdebug)

Create a sublime-project in `Project > Save Project As...`

Paste the config as bellow in created file, and ensure that `path_mapping` is mapping the **full** path to your source, eg: `C:\my\source`, `/Users/user/my/source`, `/home/user/source`, etc...:

```json
{
  "folders": [
    {
      "follow_symlinks": true,
      "path": "."
    }
  ],
  "settings": {
    "xdebug": {
      "url": "http://localhost:8888",
      "path_mapping": {
        "/var/www/html" : "/full/path/to/your/source"
      }
    }
  }
}
```


## Atom

Intall [this extension](https://github.com/gwomacks/php-debug) and put in your `config.cson`:

```
"php-debug":
    PathMaps: [
      "remotepath;localpath"
      "/var/www/html;/path/to/your/local/source"
    ]
```


### PHPStorn
Configuration is in two parts:

Configuring a Server: `Preferences > Languages & Frameworks > PHP > Servers`

![](http://imagizer.imageshack.us/v2/1024x768q90/924/1ftWIS.png)



Configuring a new PHP Remote Debugger: `Run > Edit Configurations` click in `+` and `PHP Remote Debugger`
![](http://imagizer.imageshack.us/v2/1024x768q90/922/bnd7fq.png)

Enjoy!
